# mRNA-Knockdown-of-Acyl-CoA-Dehydrogenase-in-Chlamydomonas-reinhardtii

Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is a species of algae that is of interest due to its ability to efficiently produce triacyl glycerides (TAGs) from fatty acids. Triacyl glycerides are then able to be broken down into glycerol and biodiesel fuel. However, there is an alternative pathway in which fatty acids can be broken down into. The β-oxidation pathway breaks down fatty acids into acetyl CoA which is incorporated into the Electron Transport Chain. We are looking to manipulate this β-oxidation pathway in order to maximize the amount of TAGs synthesized from fatty acids. The hope is to find a simple and efficient way to produce large amounts of biodiesel fuel from C. reinhardtii. Using RT-qPCR, a standard curve was generated showing the mRNA levels of each of the genes of interest involved in the β-oxidation pathway. Future goals of the research project involve using miRNA to knockdown each of the genes involved in the β-oxidation pathway. RT-qPCR will then be used to measure the success of each of the miRNA knockdowns of each target gene. Following successful knockdown of the target genes, thin layer chromatography (TLC) will be used to analyze the amount of triacyl glycerides present in each cell. These accumulated triacyl glycerides could then be extracted and used for biodiesel fuel synthesis. A transgenic strain of this C. reinhardtii could then be used as a “green” alternative for biodiesel fuel production.
